Step 1: Ensure/Double Check Permissions on Sensitive Files
Permissions on /etc/shadow should allow only root read and write access.


Command to inspect permissions: ls -l shadow
-rw------- 1 root shadow 2888 May 14 16:31 shadow
Command to set permissions (if needed): sudo chmod go-rw shadow


Permissions on /etc/gshadow should allow only root read and write access.


Command to inspect permissions:ls -l gshadow
-rw------- 1 root shadow 1076 May 14 16:31 gshadow
Command to set permissions (if needed): sudo chmod go-rw gshadow


Permissions on /etc/group should allow root read and write access, and allow everyone else read access only.


Command to inspect permissions: ls -l group 
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 1303 May 14 16:31 group


Command to set permissions (if needed):


Permissions on /etc/passwd should allow root read and write access, and allow everyone else read access only.


Command to inspect permissions: ls -l passwd
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 3214 May 14 16:31 passwd


Command to set permissions (if needed):


Step 2: Create User Accounts
Add user accounts for sam, joe, amy, sara, and admin.


Command to add each user account (include all five users): 
samsudo useradd joe
sudo useradd amy
sudo useradd sara
sudo useradd admin
Ensure that only the admin has general sudo access.


Command to add admin to the sudo group:
sudo usermod -a -G sudo admin
Step 3: Create User Group and Collaborative Folder
Add an engineers group to the system.


Command to add group: sudo groupadd engineers

Add users sam, joe, amy, and sara to the managed group.


Command to add users to engineers group (include all four users): sudo usermod -G engineers sam
sudo usermod -G engineers amy
sudo usermod -G engineers joe
sudo usermod -G engineers sara

Create a shared folder for this group at /home/engineers.


Command to create the shared folder: sudo mkdir /home/engineers

Change ownership on the new engineers' shared folder to the engineers group.


Command to change ownership of engineer's shared folder to engineer group: sudo chgrp engineers /home/engineers
